
[Cover Image]
FERRY HILL PLACE AS OF 1940[Frontispiece Image]
[Title Page Image]
To E. H. G. and M. F. G. Both of Them Helped
PREFACE
In 1909 Ulrich Bonnell Phillips published his Plantation and Frontier Documents, which incidentally remains today the most important single collection of published source documents on the plantation regime of the pre-Civil War South, in which he defined a plantation as “a unit in agricultural industry in which the laboring force was of considerable size, the work was divided among groups of laborers who worked in routine under supervision, and the primary purpose was in each case the production of a special staple commodity for sale. The laborers were generally in a state of bondage. Wage earners might be employed; but for the sake of certainty in maintaining a constant and even supply of labor from season to season, indented servants and negro slaves were the commoner resort.” He defined a farm as “an agricultural unit in which the labor force was relatively small. There was no sharp distinction between workman and supervisor. A less regular routine was followed and the primary purpose was divided between producing commodities for market and commodities for consumption within the family. Farmers might hire help and might buy slaves. With unfree labor as such, however, they had little or no vital concern.”1 These definitions are generally accepted as correct but it should be noted that there were plantations that had characteristics ascribed to the farm and vice versa. For instance, some plantations did not grow a single major staple for sale but produced a number of crops - grain, fruits, and livestock - for sale, and used slave labor which was not worked in routine under constant supervision.
Since 1909 many excellent journals and diaries of the rice, sugar, and cotton plantations of the lower South have been published, 2 but there has been a dearth of significant journals of combination grain, hay, fruit, and livestock plantations of the Virginia-Maryland area. And it is still true, as Phillips said in 1909, “On the subject of small farms...., 1. Plantation and Frontier Documents: 1649-1863. Illustrative of Industrial History in the Colonial & Ante-Bellum South, 2 volumes (Cleveland, Ohio: The Arthur H. Clark Company, 1909), I, 72-73.2. See below, Bibliography V, Plantation Diaries and Journals, p. 135. the reader must keep in mind that there is a hiatus in the documents.” 3 It is a well know fact, however, that the farms constituted a most important element in the general agricultural and economic life of the Old South although they were overshadowed by, and attracted less attention than, the large and more striking plantations.
It was my good fortune as editor of Henry Kyd Douglass, I Rode with Stonewall (Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina Press, 1940), to find in the attic at Ferry Hill Plantation a bound volume of a journal of that plantation kept by the then owner, John Blackford, for the year January 4, 1838, to January 15, 1839. This plantation, located on the Maryland side of the Potomac River across from Shepherdstown, Virginia (now West Virginia), had characteristics of both the plantation and the farm as defined by Phillips. The regular labor force was slave but the plantation produced no special major staple crop. Instead it grew grain of various kinds, hay, fruits, potatoes, livestock and timber for sale as well as home consumption. Mr. J. Howard Beckenbaugh, the owner of Ferry Hill in 1942, deposited the journal and other papers in the Southern Historical Collection of the University of North Carolina, but withdrew them in 1954 and gave them to the newly established Historical Society of Washington County in Hagerstown, Maryland. I had made a copy of the journal while it was on deposit in the Southern Historical Collection, and Mr. Beckenbaugh kindly gave his permission for its publication.
The preparation of this document for publication presented a number of editorial problems. There is ample evidence to show that Blackford had kept a record of his plantation for many years, probably since 1816 when he purchased the ferry, but this document is the only part of the record known to exist. Kept in a bound ledger about ten by fourteen inches, the journal begins abruptly on January 4, 1838. It has no title, but I have chosen to call it a “journal” rather than a “diary.” It was written, not in response to spontaneous impulse to record the observations, thoughts, and deeds of the author, but to record the day by day happenings at Ferry Hill Plantation. It includes home life, the operation of the ferry, and work in the fields, barns, and woods - in a word the everyday life of the Blackford family, their slaves and hired workers, and the coming and going of relatives and visitors.
